> ### Challenge
>
> 1.  Spread the `surveys` data frame with `year` as columns, `plot_id`
>     as rows, and the number of genera per plot as the values. You will
>     need to summarize before reshaping, and use the function
>     `n_distinct()` to get the number of unique genera within a
>     particular chunk of data. It's a powerful function! See
>     `?n_distinct` for more.
>
> \`\`\`r rich\_time &lt;- surveys %&gt;% group\_by(plot\_id, year)
> %&gt;% summarize(n\_genera = n\_distinct(genus)) %&gt;% spread(year,
> n\_genera)
>
> head(rich\_time) \`\`\`
>
> 2.  Now take that data frame and `gather()` it again, so each row is a
>     unique `plot_id` by `year` combination.
>
> `r   rich_time %>%       gather(year, n_genera, -plot_id)`
>
> 3.  The `surveys` data set has two measurement columns:
>     `hindfoot_length` and `weight`. This makes it difficult to do
>     things like look at the relationship between mean values of each
>     measurement per year in different plot types. Let's walk through a
>     common solution for this type of problem. First, use `gather()` to
>     create a dataset where we have a key column called `measurement`
>     and a `value` column that takes on the value of either
>     `hindfoot_length` or `weight`. *Hint*: You'll need to specify
>     which columns are being gathered.
>
> `r   surveys_long <- surveys %>%       gather(measurement, value, hindfoot_length, weight)`
>
> 4.  With this new data set, calculate the average of each
>     `measurement` in each `year` for each different `plot_type`. Then
>     `spread()` them into a data set with a column for
>     `hindfoot_length` and `weight`. *Hint*: You only need to specify
>     the key and value columns for `spread()`.
>
> `r   surveys_long %>%       group_by(year, measurement, plot_type) %>%       summarize(mean_value = mean(value, na.rm=TRUE)) %>%       spread(measurement, mean_value)`

[Back to reading](../../R-03-dplyr)
